# Etherpad Lite image for docker

This is a docker image for [Etherpad Lite](http://etherpad.org/) collaborative
text editor.
This image is based with tvelocity/etherpad-lite. 
Customize for "-e" option only on docker run. It don't need link to mysql container.

## Quickstart

First you need a running mysql container, for example:

```bash
$ docker run -d -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=password --name ep_mysql mysql
```

Finally you can start an instance of Etherpad Lite:

```bash
$ docker run -d -e "MYSQL_HOST=192.168.1.240" -e "MYSQL_PORT_3306_TCP_ADDR=3306" -e "MYSQL_ENV_MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=password" -p 9001:9001 atoato88/etherpad-lite
```

This will create an etherpad database to the mysql container, if it does not
already exist. You can now access Etherpad Lite from http://localhost:9001/

## Environment variables

This image supports the following environment variables:

* `ETHERPAD_TITLE`: Title of the Etherpad Lite instance. Defaults to "Etherpad".
* `ETHERPAD_SESSION_KEY`: Session key for the Etherpad Lite configuraition. You
can set this in case of migrating from another installation. A value is
automatically generated by default.

* `ETHERPAD_ADMIN_PASSWORD`: If set, an admin account is enabled for Etherpad,
and the /admin/ interface is accessible via it.
* `ETHERPAD_ADMIN_USER`: If the admin password is set, this defaults to "admin".
Otherwise the user can set it to another username.

* `ETHERPAD_DB_USER`: By default Etherpad Lite will attempt to connect as root
to the mysql container. This allows to change this.
* `ETHERPAD_DB_PASSWORD`: The password for the mysql user. If the root user is
used, then the password will default to the mysql container's
`MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD`.
* `ETHERPAD_DB_NAME`: The mysql database to use. Defaults to *etherpad*. If the
database is not available, it will be created when the container is launched.

The generated settings.json file will be available as a volume under
*/opt/etherpad-lite/var/*.
